OK now on to the promised kind of crazy part here I have three lists.
These could easily be tuples Instead they probably should.
Just because I'm not using them for anything they're just lists of information.
Pretend I'm a teacher and I mean I guess I am a teacher.
But pretend I'm a teacher who has three students and I don't know how it works around the world but
the schools that I went to we often would have you know a final test at the very end of a semester and
then a midterm that was halfway through.
And sometimes the way that it would work in some of my college courses is that my entire score was just
the average of those two tests.
So there were no other assignments.
Nothing else.
It came down to those two things and that was it.
Or another scenario would be I had a couple of teachers who would only take one of your tests whichever
one was higher the midterm or the final.
And then usually it wouldn't just be that score they would use something else like your homework or
your quizzes.
But they would they would throw out the lowest score essentially.
So let's say I wanted to do some of those things.
Let's start off you know we could just zip midterms and finals.
I should mention that our data is aligned.
So Dan got it 98 on the final and 80 on the midterm.
Kate got to 53 and a 78.
OK so let's say I wanted to find I wanted to make a structure that looks like this.
I want a dictionary and it's going to say something like.
Dan and his highest score should be 98 and then on his high score is what 91 and then Kate.
Sorry Kate her highest score is 78.
So I want this you know I want it to be done dynamically because I might have 100 students.
How can I you know throw out the lowest score.
This is what I want and I'll just call it you know final grades or something like that.
So we can use zip.
And there's a couple of ways to go about it.
We could use a list comprehension or actually dictionary comprehension or we could use math and I'll
start by showing a dictionary comprehension so we could begin by just finding the max of these two.
So we're going to use max and let's actually just start with a list not a dictionary comprehension.
And we're going to do a zip with midterms and then finals and we'll do four pair in zip midterms finals.
I spell midterms correct.
We could just start by just writing pair and this would be the same as just doing a list of Zipp midterms
finals.
Let's test it.
I thought oh we're not printing our way.
Let's do save this to a variable called final grades.
And then print final grades like this and we'll execute the file.
So now we're just getting the pairs the tuples of the two scores.
They go together.
Now let's find the max.
And that's not too hard because we just saw we have Max from a couple of videos back.
We could add conditional logic to do it.
It would be a lot longer but we would do something like if Peyre zero greater than pairt 1 and so on.
But we'll use Max.
And this should now just give us the maximum score and there we go.
So we get 98 is the max.
Here we have 91 is the max and then 78 is the max.
So now we move on because we don't want just a list of the max scores.
I want a dictionary like this with the names.
So we have a bunch of options actually we could use a nested comprehension.
What I'm going to do instead I'll copy this line commented out and I'm going to start by just adding
in students as well.
Now this is going to be a problem when I try and do max on students midterms and finals because one
of them is a string.
So I'm going to change this around.
We're no longer do max of pair.
We're going to do max of pair one common pair two so that he can be the max of the midterm in the finals
and I'm going to change this from a list comprehension to a dictionary comprehension.
It's getting crazy.
And what do I want the key to be.
I want it to be in pairs actually not even a good word for this anymore because it's not a pair.
But I'm going to do.
There's zero colon.
So rather than pair maybe I'll just call them all t because they're all a tuple like that.
And this needs to be T as well.
So hopefully you can see what we're doing.
We're zipping them all together.
Three things and so each tuple is going to look like Dan and then what was the next one.
Midterms.
So then 80 comma 98 and then we're making a dictionary with each one of these where we're taking the
tuple zero.
That's Dan colon the max of the other two elements which would be 98.
OK let's see if it works.
And there we go.
We're getting Dan 98 on 91 78.
So that's using zip with the dictionary comprehension.
Now I also want to show you how to do this with a lambda and using map.
And there's a lot of ways of doing this but the way that I'll do it I'll start by zipping the two scores
together so midterms come finals just like that and then I'm going to use math.
We need to tell it the collection to map and then how we want it to be mapped.
And so the new list we wanted to generate.
The way I want it to be mapped is based off of max of these two things.
So in this case I'm just going to pick the the largest using and I have to do a lambda and we'll call
it pair.
And we just want the max I can type pair.
OK.
And remember what Maff returns to us.
So I'm going to save it to a variable for now just call it data such about name.
Let's go with scores and then let's print the list scores like that OK.
And I need a comma here.
Let's see if it works.
OK so now what we have is a list of the the highest score.
It's already been picked out.
So hopefully you can see how this is working.
First recalling map but what are repassing into map passing in that collection of tuples that looks
like this.
Well we have 98 Khama.
And what was it 80 as one pair.
And for each pair We're only returning the max.
So we're only returning 98 and that's going to be added to the iterable that's returned from map and
here I'm converting it to a list to print it out.
We're not quite done yet because now I want to add in the students.
So how can I do that.
Well I could do it the same way that I was doing it here where I is also Zipp in students like this.
And then instead of just max of pair I do max pairs euro.
I'm a penguin but I'm going to show another way which would be to use Zipp again and this is going to
be quite crazy.
So I'm going to call up an indent this and I'm zipping two things together.
I'm zipping students with this entire collection as well.
So students it's going to be a simple thing here.
Right.
And map this map returns to us that collection where we just have scores like 90 whatever.
Comma.
I already forgot 91 comma 78.
I think the first one is ninety eight.
So it returns this and we're zipping it with this pretty complex looking.
But some would argue this is more.
I mean this is the more pythonic way of doing it.
Although to be honest this is I think this might just benefit from doing its own function and not trying
to do it on a single line.
But this is definitely a more traditional way of doing things in other programming languages.
OK.
So finally let's save this to a variable.
Let's just call this grades and if we just print grades remember what we get.
What's happening now scores is not defined.
Or is that using scores down here.
That one more time.
If we print it we just get the zip object.
So we need to convert it to what I want and I want a dictionary
now I get Dan 98 on 91 Kate 78.
Oh so much work there.
So if you want to be even more precise or precise it's the wrong word.
But if we just wanted to add the dict part in there in that everything else and then do it like this.
Final scores are final grades and then we just print final grades.
OK.
So this was a wee bit off a lot here but I just wanted to show something more complex because a lot
of times with Zipp people just show fear zipping to lists of totally random silly numbers that you probably
would never do.
But here's something I thought was a bit more realistic and we executed.
Now we get the same thing and we could easily tweak this or the above example as well to instead give
us an average.
So I'll just show that in my one second comment this example out.
And instead of doing the max of the pair what we'll do instead is do pair 0 plus pair 1 and then we
need to divide by 2 and we want Prendes there as well and we'll change this to have rigid grades.
Now I can print average grades so instead of finding the max we are going to with this lambda take a
pair a tuple and take the first thing added to the second thing divided by to see if it works.
And there we go.
We're getting eighty nine point ninety point sixty five point five.
OK.
So I'm not trying to argue that these are the best cleanest possible solutions to do these things.
I'm just trying to show how everything we've learned in this section can all fit together.
We have a map with a zip.
We have a lambda up here we're using max in the lambda and zip and map all these things can go together.
But at the same time I want to be clear that there's a lot of things in this in this section.
A lot of different names function syntax that we've seen.
And most of the time if you need to figure out how to do something it's just one Google away.
It's not a matter of trying to remember every single thing from a section like this because there's
a lot of material covered anyway.
I will add some comments to this.
Make it a little easier to understand everything and it will be available as a resource.